And that's exactly why
I was relieved to see
the two of you...
Your shining faces.
The two of us?
[Tomoya] She's right here.
You can talk to her.
Talk about the feelings
you've held in for two years.
What's wrong? Is
something the matter?
Nagisa? Okazaki?
[Tomoya] Is this possible?
[Kouko] Have you
heard this rumor?
[Tomoya] What rumor?
[Kouko] That Fuko is
here at this school.
That she's healthy and running
around with her friends.
Oh, Miss Ibuki!
[Kouko] Of course,
I know that's not possible.
It's just not possible.
After all, I see her sleeping
figure every day...
in the hospital.
Even if only in her dreams,
I'm glad if she's surrounded
by lots of friends.
Good friends. Close friends.
If she can only dream,
then I just hope she is
always with her friends.
If she were ever to wake up
and then come back to school,
will the two of you make a
solemn vow to me that you
will be her very best friend?
[Nagisa sobs quietly]
Of course we will.
I'm sure your sister would
be one of the most adorable
girls in school.
We tried, but we just
couldn't leave her alone.
She's so fun to be with.
Even just that would
be a great comfort...
because she wasn't very sociable
and had very few close friends.
So please, keep her company,
until the end of her dream.
Kouko, if I may, although
it's not my place to say so,
[Tomoya] but you should
marry your fiance.
[Kouko] Huh?
[Tomoya] I'm sure that's
what your sister wants.
She only wants you to be happy.
Yes, I think so too, Miss Ibuki.
If she knew you
were reconsidering your
engagement just because of her,
I know that she would
be very sad inside.
For your little sister's sake
as well, please marry him.
[Nagisa] Yes, she would
think that your happiness
is her happiness!
I just know she would.
I can't explain it,
but I feel like your
words have a strange power.
I feel like that child
really thinks that.
Up until just now, I have
to confess, I wasn't able
to think that way.
Leaving Fuko all alone in a coma
and becoming happy myself...
[Tomoya] Pardon me for saying
so, but thinking that way
is quite selfish.
I have to say, you could very
well be right about that.
But still, I do
want to be happy.
I just know... Kouko,
I know your sister will
awaken one day, won't she?
I hope so.
I really do hope so.
[Botan] Bui, bui!
[Fuko] So you like it?
You like it?
[Botan] Bui!
[Fuko] If you would to,
I would very much like
you to come to my sister's
upcoming wedding.
[Botan] Bui!
[Fuko] So you say you'll come?
[Fuko] Thank you very much!
[Botan] Bui, bui, bui! Bui!
[Fuko] I didn't know...
that my sister was hesitating
to get married.
[Tomoya] But it's a good thing,
Kouko's finally decided.
[Fuko] Excuse me. Here you go.
[Nagisa] Yes, thanks to you.
[Fuko] Please take this.
[Nagisa] I'll work harder
and increase the number
[Fuko] My sister's getting
married to her sweetheart
[Nagisa] of people attending.
I know I can, I can help her!
[Fuko] and I would just love it
if you'd come to the wedding!
[Tomoya] Yeah, let's pass out
starfish throughout the school.
She's such a strong person.
[Nagisa] What I did
was hurtful to Fuko.
[Tomoya] It's not your
fault at all, Nagisa.
[Nagisa sobs]
If anyone, I'm the one
who should be blamed.
I just couldn't believe
that it was all true.
I wanted her to meet Kouko
and verify her existence.
In the end, you were the
one who was right, not me.
[Fuko] Here!
[Dude] Uuuh...
[Fuko] Please accept this.
Aaaah... well....
Fu-chan is working even
harder than before.
If only she would
come out of her coma,
it would be a happy
ending for everyone.
Surely, it will be soon,
then she can attend
Miss Ibuki's wedding and join
her in her very special day.
[Fuko] Uh, please accept this!
[Tomoya] She ignored
her totally.
[Nagisa] It was like she
didn't even see Fu-chan.
Hey, wait a minute.
I just remembered,
there's one more person
who might accept one.
Kotomi, Kotomi, Kotomi!
Hey, notice us!
Kotomi-chan!
Huh?
Tomoya...
So that's all it takes
for you to notice us?
What is your relationship
with her?
This is our relationship.
There's nothing else.
And who is this?
I came here explicitly
to give this to you.
Please accept this gift.
Is she a bully?
She's not harassing you, Kotomi.
She says she wants to give
you a present, that's all.
[Kotomi] A present for me?
[Fuko] Yes, if you will,
please attend my sister's
upcoming wedding to her
precious fiance.
A star...
No, it's a starfish.
A starfish?
Starfish: scientific name
is Asterias amurensis.
An invertebrate. Echinodermata,
or in English, starfish.
Other encyclopedia citations
call the creature a sea star.
While appearing docile,
it is actually carnivorous.
[Kotomi] That starfish?
[Fuko gasps]
Terrific! This starfish person
is more knowledgable about
starfish than even I am!
Yeah. Just as you'd
expect from a genius.
Actually, I'm not very
well versed about animals.
That's not true, smarty girl!
I would especially like someone
as smart as you to accept one!
You must, please, come to it!
A present for me?
Thank you very much.
I'm glad she liked my present.
You two should get
along really well.
You're both kind of dazed
and seem a little awkward.
[Fuko] I am not awkward,
you critical monster meanie!
I am much more
skillful than you,
and much smarter than you,
so there!
Oh yeah?! Well you've
done it now! I think
you and I should go ahead
and compete in a tongue
twisters face off.
I accept your challenge.
Kris Kringle carefully
crunched on multicolored
crimson candy canes while
climbing the catacombs. Yes.
For your information
it was "spelunking".
Who would bite their
words that way?!
You're one pretty crafty
tongue twister player.
[Fuko] Crafty?
It means that you're dishonest.
I am not dishonest!
I am very fair!
The neighbors all said
I was one of the fairest
girls on the block!
And what kind of
neighborhood is that?
Here goes...
Kyokyokyokyakoko!
Kokokokokokokoko!
Kokokoko! How 'bout that?
Don't stand there and make a
face like you did it perfectly!
[Fuko] Okazaki, you are
a very rude person.
You're the one who's rude.
Hi there. You two are
getting along as usual.
[Fuko] We do not
get along at all!
Yeah, we're right in the middle
of a tongue twister fight.
[Youhei] Hmph.
Okazaki and you, Sunohara,
had better not do anything
that will trouble me
or upset me in the least,
or else something very bad
will happen to you both.
Oooh? Why don't you tell
me what will happen?
Come on, come on, tell me!
[Fuko fails at whistling,
instead just blowing air]
[Low rumbling]
[Youhei] Huh?
[All] We have to protect Fuko!
[Youhei yells]
So where did your fans take him?
I don't know.
[Nagisa] You gave out a
lot of invitations today.
[Fuko] Yes! I'll make tomorrow's
batch when I go home.
Hey, Fuko, would you mind
terribly going home
alone again today?
Nagisa and I have something
we need to do.
[Nagisa] Huh?
[Tomoya] Excuse me...
[Nagisa] Hello, Miss Ibuki!
[Kouko] Oh, hello.
Welcome to you both.
And what are you here for today?
[Tomoya] There was something
I wanted to ask you.
I was wondering, you haven't,
by any chance, changed your mind
about getting married,
have you, Kouko?
Are you saying that you
were worried about that
and came to verify it?
Oh, don't you worry.
My fiance and I have already
discussed the situation.
Is that so?
Except, we can't get a
reservation at a wedding hall.
It looks like it will be a while
before we can have a ceremony.
There are a lot of happy
people in the world, it seems.
A wedding hall...
Actually, to be honest,
I wanted to get married
at the school.
At the high school
where I taught those
may wonderful students.
You mean at our school?
I thought it would be so
meaningful to be married
surrounded by my students, and
the teachers, and dear friends.
[Kouko] With my sister there...
[Nagisa sniffles]
[Tomoya] Don't start
crying again.
[Nagisa sobs quietly]
Okay. I'l try to stop.
If I could, can I ask you
something about your sister?
[Kouko] Yes?
[Tomoya] I remember...
that you said that Fuko
was a little shy and awkward
around people, and not good at
making friends, didn't you?
What kind of girl was she,
before the accident?
[Kouko] That first summer
after I became a teacher,
we went to the beach
with relatives.
There were other
children Fu-chan's age,
but she all but hid behind me.
Even when people talked to her,
she wasn't able to greet them.
She sat on the beach playing
with a starfish the whole time.
All alone.
I realized for the
first time then, Fu-chan
wouldn't go near anyone.
[Girl 1] We're going the same
way you are. Wanna walk with us?
[Kouko] She graduated junior
high like that.
She doesn't talk
very much, does she?
[Kouko] But I knew that she
couldn't go on like that.
[Girl 1] Oh? Well, bye.
[Kouko] As we went
into Spring Break,
I tried to keep my
distance from her.
It was very difficult,
but I kept up a front
that I was very busy.
I think Fu-chan was very lonely.
But I hoped that her loneliness
would spur her to make friends
at the new school.
And on the morning of
the entrance ceremony,
she said that she'd work
on making friends.
It was a very nice
morning that day.
I remember it so clearly.
The sun shining...
as bright as her smile.
[Tomoya] And on the way
home after the ceremony,
[Nagisa sniffles]
she had the accident.
But it seems so strange...
Why are you two so
interested in her?
If I'm not mistaken, you two
have never even met my sister.
Yet you care so much.
To be honest, it may be
because both Furukawa and I,
we are kinda awkward around
people like your sister is
in some way or another.
[Nagisa sobs quietly]
[Fuko] Here you go.
Please accept this present.
[Tomoya] It's only until
Fuko opens her eyes.
When she's discharged
and returns to school,
[Tomoya] Kouko will realize
that she has lots of friends.
[Fuko] Please accept this, sir!
[Tomoya] She's not
shy or awkward at all.
[Nagisa] Yes...
It is true that more and more
people are accepting our
starfish gift.
It's because everyone believes
Fuko has been discharged
from the hospital.
And the rumors about
a ghost are gone.
A discharge? What are
you talking about?
You lost the match, remember?
What are you even doing here?
Stop being so rigid.
I only wanted to spend time
with my lovely Nagisa.
[Nagisa] Oh! Uh,
thank you very much.
But I think you will meet
some nice girl who'll be
a little more suited to
your personality, Sunohara.
I've been rejected
in an instant!
There are still a lot of
students of all ages in
this school who ignore Fuko.
So I was thinking, we might want
wanna consider handing out some
other kind of present to them.
Well, I don't think
that's necessary.
Every one of the kids
who accepted them were
glad to have them.
Oh, they're just saying they're
happy. No one in this school
would be happy getting
something like a shuriken.
[Tomoya] Shuriken?
[Youhei] This thing
is a shuriken.
[Youhei] It is, isn't it?
[Fuko] This is a starfish!
Starfish?! I thought it was
a shuriken all this time.
Really, Okazaki and Sunohara,
you are both so rude.
But it's true that most of
the people who accepted the
invitations don't know
that it's a starfish.
It's not necessary
to tell them, is it?
You know that someday very soon,
I'd like to tell all of those
who look like they'd appreciate
it, that it's a starfish.
Actually, it's a starfish.
That's out and out harassment,
if you ask me.
And then, after I've given
one to everyone in the
whole student body,
I'll make a public announcement.
[Fuko, over speaker]
Actually, it's a starfish!
I'd love to see the whole
student body fall flat
on their faces, but...
They won't fall flat.
They'll have a festival!
It'll become a school
event just like the
Founder's Festival.
It'll be so much fun!
[Students cheering]
[Boy] ALRIGHT!
I could go to my grave
without seeing that.
We should probably distribute
something cuter than that.
[Nagisa] Then, what about-
[Tomoya] Rejected!
But I haven't said anything yet.
Believe me, you don't have to.
You're gonna bring up
the Big Dango Family.
[Nagisa] Yes, but I...
[Youhei] Hey!
Don't just brush off Nagisa's
ideas like they were nothing!
[Tomoya] Then, tell me.
Do you think the Big
Dango Family is cute?
Are they as adorable
as all get out?
Well, there must be
situations sometimes
where someone could call
them cute and adorable.
Not sometimes, the Big Dango
Family is always cute,
don't you know?
Excuse me. I'm very
sorry, Nagisa,
but I think starfish are cuter
than the Big Dango Family
any day of the week.
[Tomoya] Oh, so an outbreak of
war between starfish and dango?
Of course starfish are cute,
but the Big Dango Family is
a heck of a lot cuter,
and everyone knows it!
I get the appeal of
the Big Dango Family,
but I don't care! I want to
give out starfish to everyone.
I've never seen Nagisa
so passionate.
They'll never give
in on this one.
Starfish don't
have a theme song.
The dangos have a really
cute theme song they sing.
And I'm gonna sing it!
♪Dango, dango, dango, dango.
Dango, dango family.♪
Starfish can do as
much as they can!
I'm going to sing!
♪Starfish, starfish...
That's plagiarism!
So how long you think this
confrontation will last?
How would I know? At this point,
no one will ever be
able to stop them.
Okay, then, starfish and
dango are both number one.
[Fuko] Yeah!
[Boys both yell]
[Fuko] Huh?
[Tomoya] Let's just cool off
and start the whole
thing from the beginning.
After all that, I still
want to stay with the
idea of giving starfish.
If we change now,
I feel like we'll lose
the momentum we've gained.
What eactly are you two
fighting with anyway?
Well... Look at how cute
these little buggers are.
Again. Sunohara, can you do
me a favor and just your
face down on this table?
[Youhei] On the table?
[Tomoya] Please, man?
Believe me, your handsome face
is the only way to help her.
Well, okay, if you
put it that way.
[Tomoya] How easy to manipulate.
[Nagisa] Okazaki,
what are you...
I guess that while I was poking
the starfish, I got too relaxed.
It's okay, poke
around all you like.
You don't have to tell me,
I'll poke away!
[Youhei makes pained sounds]
[Fuko yells]
[Tomoya] Oh, that looks
painful. Very painful.
[Tomoya] Furukawa, come with me.
We're going to see Koumura.
[Koumura] I must say,
it's quite unusual for
you to ask me for help.
You do remember Ibuki, the art
teacher who use to work here?
[Komura] Ibuki?
I remember well.
An uncommonly hairy-chested
guy...
No, no, no! Not that guy!
Kouko Ibuki, the popular
art teacher who quit
three years ago!
Oh, that's right.
Recently, I fear I'm finding
I'm getting so forgetful.
She's supposed to be getting
married really soon.
Well, congratulations!
Not to me, Komura.
Please don't use such
ambiguous speech.
It's not ambiguous speech
by any stretch! Good grief,
where does the seriousness
begin with you, pops?
So, if I understand correctly,
your request is to allow them
to have their wedding here
at school? Is that right?
Huh? Wait a minute,
how did you know about that?
Why, yes, Miss Ibuki might
have mentioned it to me
once or twice while she
was teaching here with me.
We were very close friends, so
we used to chat a great deal.
What exactly is the
forgetful part?
Well, wow about it?
Can you please allow us
to have the wedding here?
I'll try talking to the
principal about the matter.
I don't want you
to worry about it.
All our teachers and
administrative staff
here were always so
very fond of Miss Ibuki.
Have our wedding at the school?
Yes, Mr. Koumura is going to
arrange everything for us.
[Tomoya] You don't have
to wait months for an
opening at a wedding hall.
[Nagisa] You can get
married right away.
Thank you both very much.
It's just so sweet of
you to arrange it.
But I have bad news.
I'm afraid Fuko's condition
has gotten worse.
[Tomoya] Hm?
[Kouko] The other day,
the doctor told me she
probably won't awaken again.
But I... still believe Fu-chan
will open her eyes someday.
[Nagisa beings crying]
[Kouko] But I don't know
if it will be next week
or ten years from now.
After I get married,
I plan to move to the
next town near her hospital.
Then, I'll be able
to be with her longer.
And maybe be there...
when she opens those eyes.
[Tomoya] I wonder if Fuko knew?
That's why she did the
only thing she could...
Increase the number
of guests at the wedding.
[Youhei] Hey! You
look really depressed.
Did something happen
to you today?
"Happened to me?"
What about you?
You seem pretty out of it too.
I gotta tell ya, after
you left with Nagisa,
a strange thing happened.
[Fuko] Please accept this.
Please accept this!
Would you, uh,
please accept this?
Hey, wait a minute.
Yeah? What do you want?
What's wrong with you?
Don't act dumb with me.
An underclassman just
called out to you guys.
Why did you ignore her?
Underclassman? What are
you talking about?
[Youhei] Don't give me that!
Just now, a girl called
out to you.
She handed you a sculpture
and asked you to accept it.
What is wrong with you?
Who did what?
What am I...
I don't see any girl.
It wasn't some kind of joke.
I'm serious. These guys
couldn't even see Fuko there.
Okazaki... who is
this girl, Fuko?
What do you mean, Sunohara?
[Youhei] I've heard
of Fuko Ibuki.
On the day of her
entrance ceremony,
the poor girl had a
terrible accident,
and she's been hospitalized
in a coma ever since.
But her name is Fuko Isogai.
I asked all the sophomores
participating in the various
clubs on campus,
and not a one of them had
ever known a Fuko Isogai.
And that's not all.
I don't think people
are remembering her.
Are you saying she's
being forgotten?
Even the people who received
sculptures are forgetting her.
They don't remember
receiving a sculpture.
It's like they never got one.
Okazaki, what in the
world is happening here?
Why don't they remember Fuko?
Okazaki! Are you listening?
You know, I'm kinda starting
to feel that you're not such
a bad sort, Okazaki.
So you've thought of me as
a bad person up until now?
Right now, I like you
better than a sea slug.
Really? Great!
I have absolutely no
idea what level that is.
I'm leaving.
[Tomoya] The forgetting
starts with those who
didn't know her well.
[Sanae] Welcome home, Fuko.